Add accessibility swarms page (#17)
bbc/accessibility-news-and-you: accessibility-swarms.md

---
layout: page
title: Accessibility Swarms
---
Accessibility Swarms are a practice that we carry out in BBC News.

Swarms take place on **all new front-end code**, this means any changes to HTML, CSS or JavaScript code.

We do this because **accessibility is a team responsibility**.

## When should you carry out a swarm?
- Before a ticket moves from Development to Test
- When HTML, CSS & JS is code complete
- Some developer testing with some assistive technology should already have taken place

## How many people do you need?
### If it’s a new component or feature
Carry out a **team swarm**, with 4 to 6 people.

### If it’s a small change
Carry out a **developer swarm**.

- You don’t need 4 to 6 people

> - The developers pairing on the ticket can work through the **[checklist](accessibility-news-and-testers)** alone

Reviewer: This assumes everyone is pairing. It'd be good to update this line and the one above to say: `After code reviewing, two developers should work through this **[checklist](accessibility-news-and-testers)**`

Author: Added this

> - You only need to check what’s relevant. For example, if you have only changed a colour, then you only need to check what’s relevant to this. Such as, colour contrast and colour blindness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You only need to check what’s relevant. For example, if you have only changed a colour, then you only need to check what’s relevant to this, e.g. colour contrast and colour blindness.
```

Author: Thanks @ChrisBAshton http://www.hemingwayapp.com/ suggested that a new sentence was better for readability.

## Planning for swarms
The level of Accessibility Swarm (team or developer swarm) should be defined up front. So that planning sessions can include Accessibility Swarm effort. 

## Who can take part
- You don’t need to have worked on the ticket

> - All disciplines can join in. The **[testing steps](accessibility-and-testing-with-assistive-technology)** enable anyone, in any role, to use any of the assistive technology for the first time.

Reviewer 2: This link doesn't work in the preview - it might work when it's on latest though 🤔

- Ideally you want a mix of roles such as Business Analyst, Designer and Developer

## How to carry out a swarm
- Get the equipment you need:
    - Mac laptop

>     - PC laptop with **[supported assistive technology](accessibility-and-supported-assistive-technology)** installed

Reviewer 2: same here

    - Headphones with microphone to use with Dragon NaturallySpeaking e.g. Jabra headset
    - iPhone or iPad
    - Android phone with Talkback 
- Grab a space
- Get into pairs, a technical role with a non-technical role. Such as Developer and Designer working together.
- Brief the swarmers – Is there something that you need to look out for that might not be obvious? Such as, off screen visually hidden text etc.
- Work through the **[checklist](accessibility-news-and-testers)**

> - Test with all **[supported assistive technology](accessibility-and-supported-assistive-technology)** following the **[testing steps](accessibility-and-testing-with-assistive-technology)**

Reviewer 2: and these

- Make notes of any issues

> - Prioritise bugs

Reviewer: Could you please link to somewhere that explains prioritisation, or add a section in this file that explains P1/P2/P3 prioritisation.
 In my experience, this is the main area of confusion when it comes to doing a swarm for the first time.

Reviewer: It'd be good to add an additional step in this list - 
```- write a ticket in your team's workspace that includes information about replicating the issue & includes the prioritisation level.```

Author: I know I need to write something about bug prioritisation, and will do at some point (but not in this PR).

## How long will the swarm take?
- Some swarms will be shorter, some longer
- Allow 2 hours
- It will depend on the size and complexity of the component, and experience of the swarmers

## When a ticket moves to Test
- Confirm if an Accessibility Swarm has taken place and what was tested during the swarm 
- If the checklist was not completed, fill in the gaps to ensure you have complete testing coverage
- If the code hasn’t changed since the swarm, you **do not** need to repeat what was carried out in the swarm
- Test against Accessibility Acceptance Criteria
- If time, test with assistive technology  using more devices and operating system versions

## Be proactive
- Any role can start a swarm – Business Analyst, Designer, Developer etc.
- Product Owners, Project Managers & Testers – Should be asking if a swarm has taken place on a ticket

## Top tips
- Work at component level rather than page level
- The more swarms you do, the more familiar and faster you will get

> - Always follow the **[testing steps](accessibility-and-testing-with-assistive-technology)**

Reviewer 2: and here

Author: Thanks @ChrisBAshton the links work on preview 😄

---
layout: page
title: Accessibility Swarms
---
Accessibility Swarms are a practice that we carry out in BBC News.

Swarms take place on **all new front-end code**, this means any changes to HTML, CSS or JavaScript code.

We do this because **accessibility is a team responsibility**.

> 

Reviewer: It'd be good to add something like: 
```suggestion
As a result of the swarm, we expect to 
- note any accessibility issues that arise as a result of the new work, 
- prioritise these issues
- write up tickets to fix the issues, adding relevant information from the swarm.
```

Author: I think that is covered in the 'how to carry out a swarm section'.

## When should you carry out a swarm?
- Before a ticket moves from Development to Test
- When HTML, CSS & JS is code complete
- Some developer testing with some assistive technology should already have taken place

## How many people do you need?
### If it’s a new component or feature

> Carry out a **team swarm**, with 4 to 6 people.

Reviewer: `with 4 to 6 people` can be restrictive, for small teams. It would be good to explain instead which disciplines to be included, e.g. a Tester, BA, UX Designer, Developer. That the majority of the team should be involved.

Author: Will add a note about the number of people. Disciplines are covered in 'Who can take part'

Author: In fact I'll just combine the section with 'Who can take part' 😄

- Brief the swarmers – Is there something that you need to look out for that might not be obvious? Such as, off screen visually hidden text etc.
- Work through the **[checklist](accessibility-news-and-testers)**
- Test with all **[supported assistive technology](accessibility-and-supported-assistive-technology)** following the **[testing steps](accessibility-and-testing-with-assistive-technology)**
- Make notes of any issues
- Prioritise bugs

## How long will the swarm take?
- Some swarms will be shorter, some longer
- Allow 2 hours
- It will depend on the size and complexity of the component, and experience of the swarmers

## When a ticket moves to Test
- Confirm if an Accessibility Swarm has taken place and what was tested during the swarm 
- If the checklist was not completed, fill in the gaps to ensure you have complete testing coverage
- If the code hasn’t changed since the swarm, you **do not** need to repeat what was carried out in the swarm
- Test against Accessibility Acceptance Criteria
- If time, test with assistive technology  using more devices and operating system versions

## Be proactive
- Any role can start a swarm – Business Analyst, Designer, Developer etc.

> - Product Owners, Project Managers & Testers – Should be asking if a swarm has taken place on a ticket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Product Owners, Project Managers & Testers should be asking if a swarm has taken place on a ticket
```
